This simple polymer model demonstrates a couple of different ways to answer this question that was posted after the 2021 Cell Modeling Workshop about how to model breakup of a polymer chain:
>Hi all, my team mates and I are currently trying to model the depolymerization of a complex like this A(mol,top,bottom!1).A(mol,top!1,bottom!2).A(mol,top!2,bottom!3).A(mol,top!3,bottom!4).A(mol,top!4,bottom). A diffusing molecule in our model environment can bind to any molecule A (at component "mol") of the complex and cut the bond connecting either the top OR the bottom molecule A. We're wondering whether BNGL has any "OR" syntax that would allow a reactant to result in one of given possible products?

You don't really need OR syntax to do this. Rather, you can just take advantage of the fact the rules are evaluated concurrently, so that you can have multiple outcomes for single set of reactants. This is accomplished in the [v1 model](polymer_v1.bngl) by having two rules which specify cleavage of the `top` and `bottom` bonds separately but with the same rate constant. This allows cleavage of the polymer chain at interior positions in which both A binding sites are initially bound.

In the [v2 model](polymer_v2.bngl), the binding of X to A and the cleavage of A-A bonds are specified separately. There is one binding-unbinding rule and two cleavage rules, one each for cleavage at top and bottom sites respectively. The binding of X to A must be reversible or the system can become frustrated by binding of X to A monomers. Even in the v2 model with reversiblle binding, the X-A dissociation rate can become limiting on the rate of cleavage if there are a sufficient number of monomers.
